Security considerations for DCQL to fix #300 (#469)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

##### Enforcing Constraints

While the Verifier can specify various constraints both on the claims level and
the Credential level as shown above, it MUST NOT rely on the Wallet to enforce
these constraints. The Wallet is not controlled by the Verifier and the Verifier
MUST perform its own security checks on the returned Credentials and
presentations.

##### Value Matching

When using `values` to match the expected values of claims, the fact that a
claim within a certain credential matched a value or did not match a value might
already leak information about the claim value. Therefore, Wallets MUST take
precautions against leaking information about the claim value when processing
`values`. This SHOULD include, in particular:

- ensuring that a Verifier cannot distinguish between the case where a user did
  not consent to releasing the credential and the case where the claim value did
  not match the expected value, and
- preventing repeated or "silent" requests leaking data to the Verifier without
  the user's consent by ensuring that all requests, even if no response can be
  sent by the Wallet due to a `values` mismatch, require some form of user

>   interaction before a response is sent.

Reviewer: Can we add that an error code can also be considered a response in this context? e.g. the fact that a, or a particular type of error code is returned could be linked with the value matching having succeeded or not.

Reviewer 2: @martijnharing if you could re-review, can merge after that

While the Verifier can specify various constraints both on the claims level and
the Credential level as shown above, it MUST NOT rely on the Wallet to enforce
these constraints. The Wallet is not controlled by the Verifier and the Verifier
MUST perform its own security checks on the returned Credentials and
presentations.

##### Value Matching

When using `values` to match the expected values of claims, the fact that a
claim within a certain credential matched a value or did not match a value might
already leak information about the claim value. Therefore, Wallets MUST take
precautions against leaking information about the claim value when processing
`values`. This SHOULD include, in particular:

- ensuring that a Verifier, in the response, cannot distinguish between the case where a user did
  not consent to releasing the credential and the case where the claim value did
  not match the expected value, and
- preventing repeated or "silent" requests leaking data to the Verifier without
  the user's consent by ensuring that all requests, even if no response can be
  sent by the Wallet due to a `values` mismatch, require some form of user
  interaction before a response is sent.

> In both cases listed here, the potential leakage of information through both regular and

Author: Changed in a separate edit (the next line should be deleted).

> In both cases listed here, the potential leakage of information through both regular and
> error responses needs to be considered.

Author: ```suggestion
In both cases listed here, it needs to be considered that returning an error
response can also leak information about the processing outcome of `values`.
```
